JavaScript - General



# Common Practice





# Try catch finally

[DOX](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Statements/try...catch)

Are async functions that allow us to catch errors in our code.

### Try:

The code in the try block will run.

If there is any error it will pass to the catch.

## Finally:

Needs to be in a try.

The code will always run, even if the try block has an error

## Catch

In the end of a try block.

One catch can handle all the tries before it.

The argument is optional (i.e. `(e)`).

```react
const fetchResYelp = async () => {
    try {
        // Some API call ↓
      const yelpObj = await yelp.get("/search", {
        params: {
          term: searchVal,
          limit: "50",
          location: "san jose",
        },
      });
      setRestaurants(yelpObj.data.businesses);
        finally {
            console.log("This will allways run")
        }
    } catch (e) {
        // Setting the error message ↓
      setErrorMsg("Ops... the search failed, please try again later.");
    }
  };
```

***

### Handling variables and behaviors

[Dox](https://codeburst.io/explaining-value-vs-reference-in-javascript-647a975e12a0#:~:text=Javascript%20has%203%20data%20types,Array%20%2C%20Function%20%2C%20and%20Object%20.)

##### The difference between saving to the stack and reference:

When we assign a value to a var the machine will do one of two things, it will either save the value to the stack or save it to memory (heap) and set a pointer to that value.

Now, to understand this behavior we need to look at the thing we are storing.

#### The two types of behaviors :

* Non-primitive: Saving this type will result in a save to memory (heap) and a pointer.
* Primitive: Saving this type will be saved to the stack.

#### What is the difference?

* **Primitive:** Creates a new save in memory of the value.
* **Non-primitive:** has two options, one, a new reference type will create a save in memory and a pointer to that location. A reference (`newObj.var = oldArray`) will only create a pointer to the place in memory (aka the same `oldArray`).

#### Types of variables

##### Primitive types

* Boolean
* Number
* String
* Null
* undefined

##### Reference types

* Array
* Function
* Objects

The thing to remember is that when you change a reference type everything connected to that reference variable will change, because all of the references are pointing at the same value in memory.
